# Motivating Example

A person, John, speaks to an IoT device and says "Turn off the light". The device communicates with a proprietary cloud service to translate the speech to text. This service parses the text to determine that it is a command to turn off a light, and uses the list of registered devices and context to determine which "light" to turn off. The cloud service sends these details back to the local IoT device, which sends a device specific command over the local network to turn off the device.

By using AIMP, this scenario is changed to open standards for each communication:

A person, John, speaks to an IoT device and says "Turn off the light". The IoT device encodes this vocal information and produces an AIMP message, which it can send to any supporting service. This service converts the AIMP vocal messages into the text "Turn off the light". This service can return an AIMP message with this text so that a difference processor can take the next step, or it can continue to process the message. In this scenario, the message continues to be processed to determine which light is being referenced using context (location) and speaker identification. These details are sent back to the IoT device in a AIMP message. From this, the IoT device generates a local proprietary message specific to the device on the local network, and the device is turned off. Using AIMP, additional steps could easily be layered in, such as using speaker identification to determine authentication (who is initiating the command to turn off the light?) and using this to determine authorization (is the initator allowed to turn off the light?).

